content/_index.md, before:

---
title: ""
date: 2022-08-15T00:47:33-04:00
draft: false
---
I am a PhD student in the [Theory Group](https://theory.cs.columbia.edu/) at Columbia advised by [Henry Yuen](https://henryyuen.net/), and before that I was a graduate student at the Institute for Quantum Computing at the University of Waterloo, advised by [John Watrous](https://johnwatrous.com/).  I study theoretical computer science, with a focus on quantum computation.

My research is broadly about understanding fully-quantum tasks, including quantum cryptography, unitary complexity theory, and algorithms for learning from quantum data. Some specific problems that I think about are algorithms for shadow tomography, the complexity of unitary synthesis problems, and various topics in quantum cryptography like quantum money and pseudo-randomness. I am generally happy to talk about anything related to computer science, so if you have a question or idea please feel free to reach out to me!

Email: johnb at cs dot columbia dot edu

# Papers

* Learning the closest product state. [Ainesh Bakshi](https://www.aineshbakshi.com/), John Bostanci, [William Kretschmer](https://wkretschmer.github.io/), [Zeph Landau](https://people.eecs.berkeley.edu/~landau/index.htm), [Jerry Li](https://jerryzli.github.io/), [Allen Liu](https://aliu42.github.io/), [Ryan O'Donnell](http://www.cs.cmu.edu/~odonnell/), and [Ewin Tang](https://ewintang.com/).   
To appear at STOC 2025, QIP 2025 __Short Plenary Talk__.   
\[[pdf](/pdfs/papers/learning_closest_product_state.pdf), [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.04283)\]

* A General Duality for Representations of Groups with Applications to Quantum Money, Lightning, and Fire. John Bostanci, [Barak Nehoran](https://www.cs.princeton.edu/~bnehoran/), and [Mark Zhandry](https://mzhandry.github.io).   
To appear at STOC 2025, QIP 2025 Contributed Talk.  
\[[pdf](/pdfs/papers/duality_quantum_money.pdf), [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.00529), [eprint](https://eprint.iacr.org/2024/1785)\]

* Pseudorandomness in the (Inverseless) Haar Random Oracle Model.  [Prabhanjan Ananth](https://sites.google.com/site/prabhanjanva/home), John Bostanci, [Aditya Gulati](https://adityagulati.github.io/), and [Yao-Ting Lin](https://sites.google.com/view/yao-ting-lin/home).   
To appear at Eurocrypt 2025.   
\[[pdf](/pdfs/papers/pseudorandomness_in_the_haar_random_oracle_model.pdf), [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.19320), [eprint]()\]

* Commuting Local Hamiltonians Beyond 2D. John Bostanci and [Yeongwoo Hwang](https://hwangy.github.io).  
\[[pdf](/pdfs/papers/commuting_hamiltonians_beyond_2d.pdf), [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.10495), [eccc](https://eccc.weizmann.ac.il/report/2024/166)\]

* Efficient Quantum Pseudorandomness from Hamiltonian Phase States. John Bostanci, [Jonas Haferkamp](https://seas.harvard.edu/person/jonas-haferkamp), [Dominik Hangleiter](https://dhangleiter.github.io), and [Alexander Poremba](https://www.mit.edu/~poremba).    
\[[pdf](/pdfs/papers/efficient_quantum_pseudorandomness.pdf), [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.08073), [eprint](https://eprint.iacr.org/2024/1639)\]

* Oracle Separation Between Quantum Commitments and Quantum One-wayness. John Bostanci, Boyang Chen, [Barak Nehoran](https://www.cs.princeton.edu/~bnehoran/).  
To appear at Eurocrypt 2025.   
\[[pdf](/pdfs/papers/oracle_separation_between_owsg_and_efi.pdf), [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.03358), [eprint](https://eprint.iacr.org/2024/1568)\] 

* An efficient quantum parallel repetition theorem and applications. John Bostanci, [Luowen Qian](https://qcry.pt), [Nicholas Spooner](https://spooner.cc), [Henry Yuen](https://henryyuen.net).  
STOC 2024, QIP 2024 __Short Plenary Talk__.  
\[[pdf](/pdfs/papers/efficient_quantum_parallel_repetition.pdf), [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.10681), [eprint](https://eprint.iacr.org/2023/1783), [eccc](https://eccc.weizmann.ac.il/report/2023/204), [slides](/pdfs/talks/Efficient_Parallel_Repetition_QIP2024.pdf)\]

* Unitary Complexity and the Uhlmann Transformation Problem. John Bostanci, [Yuval Efron](https://zxrtde.github.io/), [Tony Metger](https://tonymetger.com), [Alexander Poremba](https://www.mit.edu/~poremba/), [Luowen Qian](https://qcry.pt), [Henry Yuen](https://henryyuen.net).  
QIP 2024 __Long Plenary Talk__.  
\[[pdf](/pdfs/papers/uhlmann_transformation_problem.pdf), [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.13073)\]

* Quantum Event Learning and Gentle Random Measurements. [Adam Bene Watts](https://www.adambenewatts.ca/) and John Bostanci.  
ITCS 2024.   
\[[pdf](/pdfs/papers/quantum_event_learning.pdf), [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2210.09155), [slides](/pdfs/talks/Quantum_Event_Finding_Gentle_Random_Measurements_ITCS2024.pdf), [talk](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6poTVyYrEOs)\].

* Finding the disjointness of stabilizer codes is NP-complete. John Bostanci and [Aleksander Kubica](https://appliedphysics.yale.edu/aleksander-kubica).  
Physical Review Research 3, 2021.   
\[[pdf](/pdfs/papers/disjointness_NP_complete.pdf), [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2108.04738)\]

* Quantum game theory and the complexity of approximating quantum Nash equilibria. John Bostanci and [John Watrous](https://johnwatrous.com/).  
Quantum 6, 2022.  
\[[pdf](/pdfs/papers/quantum_game_theory.pdf), [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2102.00512)\]

# Teaching
In Fall 2022 I was a TA for __Introduction to Quantum Computing__ at Columbia, taught by Henry Yuen.

In Summer 2023 I was a TA for __Topological Aspects of Error Correcting Codes__ at the Park City Mathematics Institute Graduate Summer School, taught by Jeongwan Haah.  Click [here](pcmi) to see the problem sets and solutions.

# Work Experience
In the summer of 2024, I was an intern at [NTT Research](https://ntt-research.com/cis/) working with [Mark Zhandry](https://mzhandry.github.io/).

I used to work for a start-up derivatives exchange called [Kalshi](https://kalshi.com/), where I helped design and build the exchange, as well as designed and built most of the connections with external parties including Bloomberg, brokers, and market makers.   

I also used to work for Citadel on the Alpha Research and Development team.  Some of my projects include X-Alpha (a graph based resource manager for creating terms), and Leonov (a neural architecture that performed better than human modelers on near term alpha).

Commit message:

Added candidacy slides and qip 2025 slides

content/_index.md, after:

---
title: ""
date: 2022-08-15T00:47:33-04:00
draft: false
---
I am a PhD student in the [Theory Group](https://theory.cs.columbia.edu/) at Columbia advised by [Henry Yuen](https://henryyuen.net/), and before that I was a graduate student at the Institute for Quantum Computing at the University of Waterloo, advised by [John Watrous](https://johnwatrous.com/).  I study theoretical computer science, with a focus on quantum computation.

My research is broadly about understanding fully-quantum tasks, including quantum cryptography, unitary complexity theory, and algorithms for learning from quantum data. Some specific problems that I think about are algorithms for shadow tomography, the complexity of unitary synthesis problems, and various topics in quantum cryptography like quantum money and pseudo-randomness. I am generally happy to talk about anything related to computer science, so if you have a question or idea please feel free to reach out to me!

Email: johnb at cs dot columbia dot edu

# Papers

* Learning the closest product state. [Ainesh Bakshi](https://www.aineshbakshi.com/), John Bostanci, [William Kretschmer](https://wkretschmer.github.io/), [Zeph Landau](https://people.eecs.berkeley.edu/~landau/index.htm), [Jerry Li](https://jerryzli.github.io/), [Allen Liu](https://aliu42.github.io/), [Ryan O'Donnell](http://www.cs.cmu.edu/~odonnell/), and [Ewin Tang](https://ewintang.com/).   
To appear at STOC 2025, QIP 2025 __Short Plenary Talk__.   
\[[pdf](/pdfs/papers/learning_closest_product_state.pdf), [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.04283), [slides](/pdfs/talks/Learning_Closest_Product_States_QIP2025.pdf)\]

* A General Duality for Representations of Groups with Applications to Quantum Money, Lightning, and Fire. John Bostanci, [Barak Nehoran](https://www.cs.princeton.edu/~bnehoran/), and [Mark Zhandry](https://mzhandry.github.io).   
To appear at STOC 2025, QIP 2025 Contributed Talk.  
\[[pdf](/pdfs/papers/duality_quantum_money.pdf), [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.00529), [eprint](https://eprint.iacr.org/2024/1785)\]

* Pseudorandomness in the (Inverseless) Haar Random Oracle Model.  [Prabhanjan Ananth](https://sites.google.com/site/prabhanjanva/home), John Bostanci, [Aditya Gulati](https://adityagulati.github.io/), and [Yao-Ting Lin](https://sites.google.com/view/yao-ting-lin/home).   
To appear at Eurocrypt 2025.   
\[[pdf](/pdfs/papers/pseudorandomness_in_the_haar_random_oracle_model.pdf), [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.19320), [eprint]()\]

* Commuting Local Hamiltonians Beyond 2D. John Bostanci and [Yeongwoo Hwang](https://hwangy.github.io).  
\[[pdf](/pdfs/papers/commuting_hamiltonians_beyond_2d.pdf), [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.10495), [eccc](https://eccc.weizmann.ac.il/report/2024/166)\]

* Efficient Quantum Pseudorandomness from Hamiltonian Phase States. John Bostanci, [Jonas Haferkamp](https://seas.harvard.edu/person/jonas-haferkamp), [Dominik Hangleiter](https://dhangleiter.github.io), and [Alexander Poremba](https://www.mit.edu/~poremba).    
\[[pdf](/pdfs/papers/efficient_quantum_pseudorandomness.pdf), [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.08073), [eprint](https://eprint.iacr.org/2024/1639)\]

* Oracle Separation Between Quantum Commitments and Quantum One-wayness. John Bostanci, Boyang Chen, [Barak Nehoran](https://www.cs.princeton.edu/~bnehoran/).  
To appear at Eurocrypt 2025.   
\[[pdf](/pdfs/papers/oracle_separation_between_owsg_and_efi.pdf), [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.03358), [eprint](https://eprint.iacr.org/2024/1568)\] 

* An efficient quantum parallel repetition theorem and applications. John Bostanci, [Luowen Qian](https://qcry.pt), [Nicholas Spooner](https://spooner.cc), [Henry Yuen](https://henryyuen.net).  
STOC 2024, QIP 2024 __Short Plenary Talk__.  
\[[pdf](/pdfs/papers/efficient_quantum_parallel_repetition.pdf), [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.10681), [eprint](https://eprint.iacr.org/2023/1783), [eccc](https://eccc.weizmann.ac.il/report/2023/204), [slides](/pdfs/talks/Efficient_Parallel_Repetition_QIP2024.pdf)\]

* Unitary Complexity and the Uhlmann Transformation Problem. John Bostanci, [Yuval Efron](https://zxrtde.github.io/), [Tony Metger](https://tonymetger.com), [Alexander Poremba](https://www.mit.edu/~poremba/), [Luowen Qian](https://qcry.pt), [Henry Yuen](https://henryyuen.net).  
QIP 2024 __Long Plenary Talk__.  
\[[pdf](/pdfs/papers/uhlmann_transformation_problem.pdf), [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.13073)\]

* Quantum Event Learning and Gentle Random Measurements. [Adam Bene Watts](https://www.adambenewatts.ca/) and John Bostanci.  
ITCS 2024.   
\[[pdf](/pdfs/papers/quantum_event_learning.pdf), [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2210.09155), [slides](/pdfs/talks/Quantum_Event_Finding_Gentle_Random_Measurements_ITCS2024.pdf), [talk](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6poTVyYrEOs)\].

* Finding the disjointness of stabilizer codes is NP-complete. John Bostanci and [Aleksander Kubica](https://appliedphysics.yale.edu/aleksander-kubica).  
Physical Review Research 3, 2021.   
\[[pdf](/pdfs/papers/disjointness_NP_complete.pdf), [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2108.04738)\]

* Quantum game theory and the complexity of approximating quantum Nash equilibria. John Bostanci and [John Watrous](https://johnwatrous.com/).  
Quantum 6, 2022.  
\[[pdf](/pdfs/papers/quantum_game_theory.pdf), [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2102.00512)\]

# Teaching
In Fall 2022 I was a TA for __Introduction to Quantum Computing__ at Columbia, taught by Henry Yuen.

In Summer 2023 I was a TA for __Topological Aspects of Error Correcting Codes__ at the Park City Mathematics Institute Graduate Summer School, taught by Jeongwan Haah.  Click [here](pcmi) to see the problem sets and solutions.

# Work Experience
In the summer of 2024, I was an intern at [NTT Research](https://ntt-research.com/cis/) working with [Mark Zhandry](https://mzhandry.github.io/).

I used to work for a start-up derivatives exchange called [Kalshi](https://kalshi.com/), where I helped design and build the exchange, as well as designed and built most of the connections with external parties including Bloomberg, brokers, and market makers.   

I also used to work for Citadel on the Alpha Research and Development team.  Some of my projects include X-Alpha (a graph based resource manager for creating terms), and Leonov (a neural architecture that performed better than human modelers on near term alpha).  

# Miscellaneous

Here are the slides I used for my [candidacy exam](/pdfs/candidacy/Candidacy_Presentation.pdf) at Columbia.
